Technology continues to expand
into wide range of devices.
As you go about
your daily routine,
you've possibly interacted
with technology on
many devices from mobiles to
wearables, or even
refrigerators.
Partly because of the increase
in these different devices,
the demand for web and
mobile developers is high
and continues to grow.
That growth makes cross-platform
programming skills
invaluable to any developer.
Cross-platform developers make
software applications
that are compatible with
multiple operating systems and
there's currently a shortage
of specialized
application developers.
A specialized
developer focuses on
a particular domain with
great in-depth knowledge.
That type of demand means
that upskilling yourself in
a cross-platform
application development
could be a smart move.
The skills you gain with
a course like this can
lead to many opportunities
for employment.
Both newcomers and
season developers
can find job opportunities
in the current market.
In this video, you'll learn more
about the roles associated with
a skilled cross-platform
application developer and
the typical skills and tasks
associated with such jobs.
What kind of things does a
cross-platform developer do?
Well, job descriptions can vary
greatly depending on the
position advertised.
Each company, and
even each project
may require a
different approach.
Some of the common tasks and
responsibilities shared by
cross-platform developers
include: writing code,
always a prime requirement of
a developer and it's especially
important to have clean,
readable, and error-free code
when the aim is to create
apps compatible with
several operating systems.
Dealing with bugs.
Another tanks human issue
that typically occurs
involves finding and fixing
bugs and attending to
performance issues.
Development of new
app features and new
UI or user interfaces
for the app.
Often this can entail
upgrading existing code.
Application monitoring
to identify problems.
You might do this by observing
app performance or
analyzing data.
Developers are also
involved in building
clean and smooth animations
and transitions.
These are design techniques
that help to provide
an excellent UX or
user experience.
Other common
cross-platform tasks
include integrating
third-party technologies,
like application
program interfaces or
APIs to connect the app with
other technologies or code,
writing tests, and
releasing applications,
and updates to the Apple
and Google stores.
That's a brief overview
of some common tasks and
responsibilities
you're likely to
find in a cross-platform
developer role.
Many of those tasks
involve coding.
What programming languages
do cross-platform
developers need?
Well, the language
required often
depends on the project
or the company,
but language choice is primarily
guided by the framework.
A framework is a
platform that provides
the foundation and tools
to develop software
applications.
It's sometimes
compared to a template
that you modify it by
adding your own code.
The most important now,
which for you to know is the one
that the framework is based on.
Just three are mentioned here,
but many other frameworks
are available.
For instance, the
React Native framework
uses JavaScript,
Flutter uses Google's
programming language Dart,
and Xamarin is built using
the C-Sharp
programming language.
Apart from the language
associated with the framework,
a development language may be
related to particular platforms.
For instance, Android developers
use languages such
as Java and Kotlin,
while iOS developers use
Objective-C and Swift.
Then many development
tasks will involve using
HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
These are used to build
websites or applications.
While not considered to be
actual programming languages,
learning these can
expand your choice
of job roles and projects.
I think I've covered that
it's great if you know
a language and its
associated framework.
For example, if you
learn JavaScript,
you're then ready to explore
cross-platform development
with React Native.
I've also emphasized
that it's a bonus
if you've proficiency
in other languages.
Furthermore, I'd
consider it wise for
cross-platform developers
to at least be
aware of some related
skills and concepts.
That includes being
knowledgeable about
standard web development,
the browser,
and third party integrations
like REST APIs,
which help you to interact
with RESTful web services,
such as getting weather
or geolocation data.
Apart from the many
coding skills,
developers often work as part of
a team which can include
other developers,
project managers, QA
professionals, and designers.
Knowing how to use tools
like Slack for chat,
Zoom for video calls,
and Jira for support
tickets makes it
easier for you to integrate
and stay connected to the team.
Your role may involve
helping to plan projects and
participating in the
project progression
by attending Team meetings.
In addition, you'll find that
almost all developers spend
some time researching
their projects,
watching emerging trends,
and keeping up-to-date with
the language and
platform changes.
Let's say that you've mastered
your cross-platform
development skills.
Now, where in the job
market do you find work?
Because cross-platform
development skills are in demand,
there are many
roles available for
web and mobile developers.
Let's explore the job options.
Cross-platform
development is popular
with small companies and
startups who understand how
apps can aid their growth,
and is equally useful
to large companies.
For instance, they may want
to build apps that
help them gain
a slight competitive
advantage or
foster engagement
with their user base.
Contracting development
agencies often use
cross-platform development
as it helps them to quickly
use existing talent and
offer more services.
There's a high demand
for developers,
but perhaps you are not
attracted by any
of the job offers.
Well, having cross-platform
development skills
means that you can work as
a freelance web app developer
or start your own
development company.
From specialists to general
software engineers,
cross-platform
development is used
widely and is in
very high demand.
As a result, it's an
invaluable skill set to have.
You should now have a
better understanding
of a cross-platform
developer's role,
their responsibilities,
and the skills they need.